
print(Week 1: 'Blog' blog


Last Thursday was the first CA115 lecture and I wasn't really sure what to expect from it. I knew there was some sort of project involved as it was 100% continuous assessment. Having Monica was nice because we already had her from last years CA106 module and were familiar with her. 

We firstly got a quick introduction to the module and how marks were divided, the usual. After that we started looking at the history of blogs, types and other characteristics of a blog. Today, video-blogs (vlogs) are much more common. Blogs are still around but are just not as popular. It was nice to learn about the origins of it and all the different kinds of blog. It was really eye-opening because I myself have never really read a blog. 

We were then told that we would be writing up a blog every week. At first I was not very fond of the idea, but after some thought, I realised that I've always wanted to document certain days and experiences. I watch a few daily/weekly vloggers on YouTube and was always envious of how they were able to go back to a certain video and rewatch their whole day. A blog is quite similar to that in that I document what happened in my day or week and store it somewhere. It'll always be there if I want to go back to it. 

We learned that blogs weren't only used as some sort of personal diary, but it is also used for marketing, branding and other ways of reaching the public. This is valuable because blogs could be another way of getting my own product and or brand out there if I were to make a website or product during my course or my future career even. Learning how to write blogs well and effectively is a great tool to have as I progress in my future. I believe that reflection is every important when it comes to progress and blogs allow us to do just that.

Lastly Monica got us to play a Kahoot game just to test our prior knowledge about blogs. I was actually quite surprised at how much I knew about them but I didn't know everything and it was nice to learn that bit more about blogs.)